<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="account_management">
  <title>Account Management</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Account management</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <section id="sign_up">
      <title>Sign Up</title>
      <p id="p_pht_dgk_54b">If this is your first time before using <ph keyref="product"/>, you must create an account
        by following these steps:<ol id="ol_qht_dgk_54b">
          <li id="li_rht_dgk_54b" product="fusion">If the Content Fusion server is configured to
            provide Google or GitHub authentication and you have an active Google or GitHub account,
            you can simply click either of those two buttons and allow <ph keyref="product"/> to use
            those credentials. Otherwise, proceed to the next step.<note id="note_sht_dgk_54b"><ph
                keyref="product"/> only uses your social account to read your name and email
              address. No other data is accessed.</note><note id="note_tht_dgk_54b"><ph
                keyref="product"/> requires a valid email address to complete your account sign-up
              process. Even if you choose to log in using a social account, the email address
              associated with that account might not be public (this is the default case for
              GitHub). In this case, <ph keyref="product"/> asks you to provide one.</note></li>
          <li id="li_uht_dgk_54b">Click the <uicontrol>SIGN UP</uicontrol> tab and enter your name, a valid email
            address, and a password.</li>
          <li id="li_vht_dgk_54b">Click the <uicontrol>I'm not a robot</uicontrol> checkbox.</li>
          <li id="li_wht_dgk_54b">Click the <uicontrol>SIGN UP</uicontrol> button at the bottom.</li>
          <li id="li_xht_dgk_54b">Open the email that is sent to the email address you entered and use the link to
            verify your email address.</li>
          <li id="li_yht_dgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>Authorize</uicontrol> to finalize the account creation process.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="login">
      <title>Log In</title>
      <p id="p_zht_dgk_54b">If the Content Fusion server is configured to accept Google or GitHub
        authentication and you have an active Google or GitHub account, simply click either of those
        two buttons to log in. Otherwise, enter your email address and password, and then click
          <uicontrol>LOG IN</uicontrol>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="account_lockout_failed_attempts">
      <title>Account Lockout After Failed Login Attempts</title>
      <p id="p_lockout_intro">After a maximum number of consecutive failed sign-in attempts
        (default: 5), your
        account is temporarily locked for a period (default: 30 minutes). During the lockout period, sign-in is rejected even with the
        correct password. The interface displays a message such as: <q>Too many failed attempts.
          Retry after <i>X</i> minutes</q> (the number of minutes is provided by the server). The
        lockout expires automatically; you only need to wait before trying again. A successful
        sign-in before reaching the limit resets the failed-attempt counter.</p>
      <note id="note_lockout_scope">This applies only to <b>email and password</b> sign-in. Sign-in with Google,
        GitHub, or OIDC is not affected by account lockout.</note>
      <note id="note_lockout_enterprise_config" product="fusion">On <ph keyref="cfEnterprise"/>, the
        number of attempts and lockout duration can be configured by the administrator. See <xref
          href="cf-admin-page-authentication.dita#cf-admin-page-authentication/dlentry_account_lockout"
        />.</note>
    </section>
    <section id="forgot_your_password">
      <title>Forgot Your Password</title>
      <p id="p_a3t_dgk_54b">To reset your password, click the <uicontrol>Forgot Your
          Password</uicontrol> link at the bottom of the Login page. You are directed to a page
        where you can enter your email address and you will receive an email with a link to reset
        your password.<note id="note_jgx_vwl_lyb" product="fusion">The <uicontrol>Forgot Your
            Password</uicontrol> link is displayed only if an <xref href="cf-admin-page-mail.dita"
            >email server</xref> is configured. </note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="profile_page">
      <title>Profile Management</title>
      <p id="p_b3t_dgk_54b">To view your profile information, click your user name in the top-right corner of the <ph
          keyref="product"/> interface. This opens a drop-down menu that offers the following
        options:</p>
      <p id="p_c3t_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_d3t_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_e3t_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Profile</dt>
            <dd>This opens a <xref href="cf-profile-settings.dita">profile settings page</xref> that
              displays your name, email, avatar, and allows you to delete your account or specify
              which types of notifications will be sent to you via email.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_f3t_dgk_54b">
            <dt>My Review Tasks</dt>
            <dd>Opens the <xref href="content_fusion_task_details.dita"><uicontrol>My Review
                  Tasks</uicontrol> page</xref> in the main area that displays a list of all the
              current tasks that you created, those that were assigned to you, and those that have
              been finalized (if the finalized tasks category is not shown, click the
                <uicontrol>Show finalized review tasks</uicontrol> link).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_g3t_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Log Out</dt>
            <dd>Select this option to log out of your account.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
