<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-review-task-comment-mentions-notifications">
  <title>Mentions and Email Notifications for Review Task Comments</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Review task comments</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Mentions</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Reply notifications</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Email notifications</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>In review tasks, you can mention other users in comments and replies by typing <b>@</b> and
      choosing a person from the resulting drop-down list. This functionality is available only for
      review task comments and is not available in personal workspaces.</p>
    <section id="how_to_mention_someone">
      <title>How to Mention Someone</title>
      <ol>
        <li>Open a file in the review task and <xref
            href="making_changes_to_uploaded_files.dita#making_changes_to_uploaded_files/add-comment"
            >add a comment</xref>, <xref
            href="making_changes_to_uploaded_files.dita#making_changes_to_uploaded_files/dlentry_q25_1dy_43c"
            >reply to</xref> a comment thread, or <xref
            href="making_changes_to_uploaded_files.dita#making_changes_to_uploaded_files/edit-comment"
            >edit</xref> an existing comment.</li>
        <li>In the comment text, type <b>@</b>.</li>
        <li>A list of users you can mention appears. Start typing to filter the list if needed.</li>
        <li>Select the user. Their name is added as a mention in the comment.</li>
        <li>Finish your comment or reply and submit it.</li>
        <li>If the users are not already collaborators on the review task, you will be asked to
          assign them as reviewers.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="who_appears_in_the_list">
      <title>Who Appears in the List</title>
      <p>When the task is shared so that anyone with the link has access (the
          <uicontrol product="fusion-cloud">Anyone in your organization who opens the link is
          automatically granted access as a Reviewer</uicontrol><uicontrol product="fusion">Anyone
          who opens the link is automatically granted access as a Reviewer</uicontrol> option is
        enabled), the mention list shows <ph product="fusion-cloud">all users from your
          organization</ph><ph product="fusion">all users who can access the server</ph>. When the
        task can be accessed only by specified collaborators, the list shows only the current
          <i>collaborators</i> on the task.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="behavior_when_mentioning_someone">
      <title>Behavior When Mentioning Someone</title>
      <p>As the <i>task owner</i>, if you mention someone who has not yet been added to the task, a
          <uicontrol>Grant task access</uicontrol> dialog box appears so that you can add them. If
        you mention someone who is already a collaborator on the task, the mention is added without
        any further steps.</p>
      <p>As a <i>reviewer</i>, when the task is shared with the link, the full list of users
        appears. If you mention someone who is not yet on the task, a <uicontrol>Grant task
          access</uicontrol> dialog box appears and you must confirm that you want to add them as a
        reviewer on the task. The system then adds them as a reviewer. If you cancel the dialog
        box, the comment is not saved and you can change the mention or the owner can add the
        person later via <uicontrol>Share</uicontrol>.</p>
      <p>As a <i>reviewer</i>, when the task can be accessed only by specified collaborators, only
        the current collaborators on the task appear in the list. If you need to involve someone
        who is not listed, they must be added by the task owner via <uicontrol>Share</uicontrol>
        (in this case, you may see a message that those users must be added by the owner).</p>
    </section>
    <section id="email_notifications">
      <title>Email Notifications for Replies</title>
      <p>When you add a reply to a comment thread, all users involved in that thread that are
        collaborators on the review task receive a reply email notification.</p>
      <p>If a reply also includes a mention, the mentioned user receives only the mention email, not
        a separate reply email. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="find_mentions">
      <title>Find Comments That Contain Mentions</title>
      <p>To find all comments where you or someone else is mentioned, use the <b>Mentioned
          user</b> filter in the <xref href="cf-task-reviews-view.dita"/> (for tasks) or in the
          <xref
          href="cf-projects-workspace_search_view.dita#cf-projects-workspace_search_view/section_in_reviews"
          >In reviews tab (for projects)</xref>. For a step-by-step procedure, see <xref
          href="cf-how-to-find-reviews-where-mentioned.dita"/>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="cf-task-reviews-view.dita"/>
    <link href="cf-projects-workspace_search_view.dita"/>
    <link href="cf-how-to-find-reviews-where-mentioned.dita"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
