<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-advanced-search">
    <title>Advanced Search</title>
    <shortdesc>Along with simple searches, the Content Fusion search engine also supports advanced
        query syntax that allows you to create more complex, flexible, and useful queries to make
        the search more precise.</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <p>This topic describes the advanced search features that you can use when searching on the
            Task Search page or Workspace search view. A short reference is also available in the UI via the help icon next to
            the search field.</p>
        <section id="phrase-search">
            <title>Phrase Search</title>
            <p>
                A query consists of terms and operators. Terms can be either <b>single terms</b> (individual words) or <b>phrases</b> (multiple words surrounded by quotes).
            </p>
            <p>
                When you enclose words in double quotation marks, the search returns results only when the exact phrase appears in the content.
            </p>
            <p>Search for the exact phrase:</p>
            <codeblock>"Install Content Fusion"</codeblock>
        </section>
        <section id="field-search">
            <title>Field Search</title>
            <p>
                You can search within specific fields by specifying the field name followed by a colon (<codeph>:</codeph>) and the search term.
            </p>
            <p>Search for a title that exactly matches <codeph>The Right Way</codeph>:</p>
            <codeblock>title:"The Right Way"</codeblock>
            <note>
                The field specification applies only to the term it directly precedes. For example:
                <codeblock>title:Do it right</codeblock>
                will search <b>title</b> for <codeph>Do</codeph> and search the default <b>text</b> field for <codeph>it</codeph> and <codeph>right</codeph>.
            </note>
            <p>The available fields are:</p>
            <ul>
                <li><b>title</b> — Document title</li>
                <li><b>description</b> — Document description</li>
                <li><b>text</b> — Full text content of the document</li>
                <li><b>keywords</b> — Document keywords</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section id="wildcard-search">
            <title>Wildcard Search</title>
            <p>
                You can use wildcard characters in individual terms to broaden a search. Wildcards are not supported within quoted phrases.
            </p>
            <p><b>?</b> – matches a single character</p>
            <p><b>*</b> – matches zero or more characters</p>
            <p>Find terms like <codeph>meet</codeph> or <codeph>meat</codeph>:</p>
            <codeblock>me?t</codeblock>
            <p>Find terms like <codeph>test</codeph>, <codeph>tests</codeph>, <codeph>testing</codeph>:</p>
            <codeblock>test*</codeblock>
            <note>
                A wildcard term cannot start with <codeph>*</codeph> or <codeph>?</codeph>.
            </note>
        </section>
        <section id="regexp-search">
            <title>Regular Expression Search</title>
            <p>
                You can use regular expressions to match patterns. A regular expression should be enclosed in forward slashes (<codeph>/.../</codeph>).
            </p>
            <p>Match <codeph>boat</codeph> or <codeph>moat</codeph>:</p>
            <codeblock>/[mb]oat/</codeblock>
        </section>
        <section id="proximity-search">
            <title>Proximity Search</title>
            <p>
                To find terms that occur within a defined number of words from each other, append a tilde (<codeph>~</codeph>) and a number after a quoted phrase.
            </p>
            <codeblock>"dita webhelp"~10</codeblock>
            <p>Find instances where <codeph>dita</codeph> and <codeph>webhelp</codeph> occur within 10 words of each other.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="boosting">
            <title>Boosting</title>
            <p>
                You can increase the relative importance of a term by adding a caret (<codeph>^</codeph>) with a numeric boost factor after the term.
            </p>
            <codeblock>dita^4 webhelp</codeblock>
            <p>This increases the relevance of documents containing <codeph>dita</codeph>.</p>
            <note>
                The default boost factor is 1. Values must be positive and can be less than 1 (for example, 0.2).
            </note>
        </section>
        <section id="boolean-operators">
            <title>Boolean Operators</title>
            <p>
                Boolean operators combine terms logically. The supported operators are <b>AND</b>, <b>OR</b>, <b>+</b>, <b>NOT</b>, and <b>-</b>. Operators must be in ALL CAPS.
            </p>
            <p>
                When no operator is specified between terms, <b>OR</b> is assumed.
            </p>
            <p>Find documents containing either term:</p>
            <codeblock>"dita webhelp" dita</codeblock>
            <p><b>AND</b> – Documents must contain both terms:</p>
            <codeblock>"dita webhelp" AND "content search"</codeblock>
            <p><b>+</b> – Term is required:</p>
            <codeblock>+dita webhelp</codeblock>
            <p><b>NOT</b> – Exclude documents with the following term:</p>
            <codeblock>"dita webhelp" NOT "content search"</codeblock>
            <p><b>-</b> – Another way to exclude results:</p>
            <codeblock>"dita webhelp" -"content search"</codeblock>
        </section>
        <section id="field-grouping">
            <title>Field Grouping</title>
            <p>
                Use parentheses to group multiple conditions within a field.
            </p>
            <codeblock>title:(+dita +"content search")</codeblock>
            <p>Find titles that contain both <codeph>dita</codeph> and <codeph>content
                    search</codeph>.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="escaping">
            <title>Escaping Special Characters</title>
            <p>
                To search for characters that are part of the query syntax (for example <codeph>( ) * ? :</codeph>), escape those characters with a backslash (<codeph>\</codeph>).
            </p>
            <codeblock>\(1\+1\)\:2</codeblock>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
