<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_emm_2by_yhc">
    <title>File Browser Descriptor API</title>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>File Browser Descriptor API</indexterm>
                <indexterm>File browsing widget</indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <body>
        <p>The File Browser Descriptor API enables complete customization of file type filtering in Web Author's file browser and upload dialogs through a unified descriptor-based approach.</p>
      
      
          <section id="quick-start">
      <title>Quick Start</title>

      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">
// Get current descriptor
var descriptor = sync.api.UrlChooser.getFileBrowserDescriptor();

// Add SVG filter option to IMAGE type
descriptor.types.IMAGE.filters.push({
  label: 'SVG Files',
  regex: '\\.(svg)$'
});

// Apply the updated descriptor
sync.api.UrlChooser.setFileBrowserDescriptor(descriptor);
      </codeblock>
    </section>

    <section id="api-reference">
      <title>API Reference</title>

      <p>Functions:</p>

      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">
sync.api.UrlChooser.getFileBrowserDescriptor()
sync.api.UrlChooser.setFileBrowserDescriptor(descriptor)
      </codeblock>

      <p>Descriptor Structure:</p>

      <p>The file browser descriptor is a JSON object with the following structure:</p>

      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">
{
  "types": {
    "TYPE_NAME": {
      "uploadAcceptAttribute": "string|undefined",
      "allowAllFiles": boolean,
      "filters": [
        {
          "label": "string",
          "regex": "string|null"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
      </codeblock>

      <p>Type Configuration Properties:</p>

      <table>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Property</entry>
              <entry>Type</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>uploadAcceptAttribute</codeph></entry>
              <entry>string | undefined</entry>
              <entry>HTML accept attribute for native file upload dialogs. If undefined, no file type restriction is applied.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>allowAllFiles</codeph></entry>
              <entry>boolean</entry>
              <entry>Whether to show the "All Files" option in the file browser dropdown. Defaults to <codeph>true</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>filters</codeph></entry>
              <entry>FilterConfiguration[]</entry>
              <entry>Array of filter configurations for this type. The first filter is considered the default.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>

      <p>Filter Configuration Properties:</p>

      <table>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Property</entry>
              <entry>Type</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>label</codeph></entry>
              <entry>string</entry>
              <entry>Localized display text shown in the file browser dropdown for this filter.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>regex</codeph></entry>
              <entry>string | null</entry>
              <entry>Regular expression pattern as a string for filtering files. If <codeph>null</codeph>, no filtering is applied (shows all files within the type).</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>

    <section id="use-cases">
      <title>Use Cases</title>

      <p><b>Add Filter Options (Recommended)</b></p>
      <p>
        Add additional filter choices without removing defaults.
      </p>

      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">
var descriptor = sync.api.UrlChooser.getFileBrowserDescriptor();

// Add SVG and PNG options to IMAGE type
descriptor.types.IMAGE.filters.push({
  label: 'SVG Files',
  regex: '\\.(svg)$'
});

descriptor.types.IMAGE.filters.push({
  label: 'PNG Files',
  regex: '\\.(png)$'
});

sync.api.UrlChooser.setFileBrowserDescriptor(descriptor);
      </codeblock>

      <p><b>Create Custom Types</b></p>
      <p>
        Define completely new file types.
      </p>

      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">
var descriptor = sync.api.UrlChooser.getFileBrowserDescriptor();

// Add a DOCUMENT type
descriptor.types.DOCUMENT = {
  uploadAcceptAttribute: '.doc,.docx,.pdf,.txt',
  allowAllFiles: true,
  filters: [
    {
      label: 'Document Files',
      regex: '\\.(doc|docx|pdf|txt)$'
    },
    {
      label: 'Office Documents',
      regex: '\\.(doc|docx|xls|xlsx)$'
    }
  ]
};

sync.api.UrlChooser.setFileBrowserDescriptor(descriptor);

// Use the custom type in your file chooser
var context = new sync.api.UrlChooser.Context('DOCUMENT');
workspace.getUrlChooser().chooseUrl(context, function(url) {
  console.log('Selected document:', url);
}, sync.api.UrlChooser.Purpose.CHOOSE);
      </codeblock>

      <p><b>Disable "All Files" Option</b></p>
      <p>
        Remove the "All Files" option for specific types.
      </p>

      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">
var descriptor = sync.api.UrlChooser.getFileBrowserDescriptor();

// Disable "All Files" option for DITA type
descriptor.types.DITA.allowAllFiles = false;

sync.api.UrlChooser.setFileBrowserDescriptor(descriptor);
      </codeblock>

      <p><b>Replace Default Filters</b></p>
      <p>
        Completely replace the default filters for a type.
      </p>

      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">
var descriptor = sync.api.UrlChooser.getFileBrowserDescriptor();

// Replace IMAGE filters with JPEG-only
descriptor.types.IMAGE = {
  uploadAcceptAttribute: '.jpg,.jpeg',
  allowAllFiles: false,
  filters: [
    {
      label: 'JPEG Images Only',
      regex: '\\.(jpg|jpeg)$'
    }
  ]
};

sync.api.UrlChooser.setFileBrowserDescriptor(descriptor);
      </codeblock>
    </section>

    <section id="validation">
      <title>Validation</title>

      <p>The API logs console warnings for common issues:</p>

      <ul>
        <li><codeph>descriptor must be an object</codeph>: Provide valid descriptor object</li>
        <li><codeph>descriptor.types must be an object</codeph>: Ensure types property exists</li>
        <li><codeph>invalid type configuration</codeph>: Check type configuration structure</li>
        <li><codeph>invalid filter configuration</codeph>: Verify filter objects have required properties</li>
        <li><codeph>invalid regex</codeph>: Ensure regex strings are valid regular expressions</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section id="troubleshooting">
      <title>Troubleshooting</title>

      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Filter not appearing</dt>
          <dd>
            Check label, regex validity, type name, and console warnings.
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>"All Files" option not hiding</dt>
          <dd>
            Ensure <codeph>allowAllFiles: false</codeph> is set on the type configuration.
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Upload restrictions not working</dt>
          <dd>
            Verify <codeph>uploadAcceptAttribute</codeph> format (e.g., <codeph>'.jpg,.png'</codeph>).
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Changes not taking effect</dt>
          <dd>
            Ensure <codeph>setFileBrowserDescriptor()</codeph> is called after modifying the descriptor.
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>

      
    </body>
</topic>
