<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-file-browsing-filter-customization">
  <title>File Browser Descriptor API</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>File Browser Descriptor API</indexterm>
        <indexterm>File browsing widget</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The File Browser Descriptor API enables complete customization of file type filtering in Web
      Author's file browser and upload dialog boxes through a unified descriptor-based approach.</p>
    <section id="quick-start">
      <title>Quick Start</title>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">// Get current descriptor
var descriptor = sync.api.UrlChooser.getFileBrowserDescriptor();

// Add SVG filter option to IMAGE type
descriptor.types.IMAGE.filters.push({
  label: 'SVG Files',
  regex: '\\.(svg)$'
});

// Apply the updated descriptor
sync.api.UrlChooser.setFileBrowserDescriptor(descriptor);</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section id="api-reference">
      <title>API Reference</title>
      <p>Functions:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">sync.api.UrlChooser.getFileBrowserDescriptor()
sync.api.UrlChooser.setFileBrowserDescriptor(descriptor)</codeblock>
      <p>Descriptor Structure:</p>
      <p>The file browser descriptor is a JSON object with the following structure:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">{
  "types": {
    "TYPE_NAME": {
      "uploadAcceptAttribute": "string|undefined",
      "allowAllFiles": boolean,
      "filters": [
        {
          "label": "string",
          "regex": "string|null"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}</codeblock>
      <p>Type Configuration Properties:</p>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Property</entry>
              <entry>Type</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>uploadAcceptAttribute</codeph></entry>
              <entry>string | undefined</entry>
              <entry>The HTML accept attribute for native file upload dialog boxes. If undefined, no
                file type restriction is applied.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>allowAllFiles</codeph></entry>
              <entry>boolean</entry>
              <entry>Specifies whether to show the "All Files" option in the file browser drop-down
                menu. Default=<codeph>true</codeph>.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>filters</codeph></entry>
              <entry>FilterConfiguration[]</entry>
              <entry>Array of filter configurations for this file type. The first filter is
                considered the default.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <p>Filter Configuration Properties:</p>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Property</entry>
              <entry>Type</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>label</codeph></entry>
              <entry>string</entry>
              <entry>Localized display text shown in the file browser drop-down menu for this
                filter.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>regex</codeph></entry>
              <entry>string | null</entry>
              <entry>Regular expression pattern as a string for filtering files. If
                  <codeph>null</codeph>, no filtering is applied (shows all files within the
                type).</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section id="use-cases">
      <title>Use Cases</title>
      <p><u><b>Add Filter Options (Recommended)</b></u></p>
      <p> Add additional filter choices without removing defaults. </p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">var descriptor = sync.api.UrlChooser.getFileBrowserDescriptor();

// Add SVG and PNG options to IMAGE type
descriptor.types.IMAGE.filters.push({
  label: 'SVG Files',
  regex: '\\.(svg)$'
});

descriptor.types.IMAGE.filters.push({
  label: 'PNG Files',
  regex: '\\.(png)$'
});

sync.api.UrlChooser.setFileBrowserDescriptor(descriptor);    </codeblock>
      <p><u><b>Create Custom Types</b></u></p>
      <p> Define completely new file types. </p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">var descriptor = sync.api.UrlChooser.getFileBrowserDescriptor();

// Add a DOCUMENT type
descriptor.types.DOCUMENT = {
  uploadAcceptAttribute: '.doc,.docx,.pdf,.txt',
  allowAllFiles: true,
  filters: [
    {
      label: 'Document Files',
      regex: '\\.(doc|docx|pdf|txt)$'
    },
    {
      label: 'Office Documents',
      regex: '\\.(doc|docx|xls|xlsx)$'
    }
  ]
};

sync.api.UrlChooser.setFileBrowserDescriptor(descriptor);

// Use the custom type in your file chooser
var context = new sync.api.UrlChooser.Context('DOCUMENT');
workspace.getUrlChooser().chooseUrl(context, function(url) {
  console.log('Selected document:', url);
}, sync.api.UrlChooser.Purpose.CHOOSE);</codeblock>
      <p><u><b>Disable "All Files" Option</b></u></p>
      <p> Remove the "All Files" option for specific file types. </p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">var descriptor = sync.api.UrlChooser.getFileBrowserDescriptor();

// Disable "All Files" option for DITA type
descriptor.types.DITA.allowAllFiles = false;

sync.api.UrlChooser.setFileBrowserDescriptor(descriptor);    </codeblock>
      <p><u><b>Replace Default Filters</b></u></p>
      <p> Completely replace the default filters for a file type. </p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">var descriptor = sync.api.UrlChooser.getFileBrowserDescriptor();

// Replace IMAGE filters with JPEG-only
descriptor.types.IMAGE = {
  uploadAcceptAttribute: '.jpg,.jpeg',
  allowAllFiles: false,
  filters: [
    {
      label: 'JPEG Images Only',
      regex: '\\.(jpg|jpeg)$'
    }
  ]
};

sync.api.UrlChooser.setFileBrowserDescriptor(descriptor);</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section id="validation">
      <title>Validation</title>
      <p>The API logs console warnings for the following common issues:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><codeph>descriptor must be an object</codeph> - Provide valid descriptor object.</li>
        <li><codeph>descriptor.types must be an object</codeph> - Ensure that the
            <codeph>types</codeph> property exists.</li>
        <li><codeph>invalid type configuration</codeph> - Check the type configuration
          structure.</li>
        <li><codeph>invalid filter configuration</codeph> - Verify that filter objects have the
          required properties.</li>
        <li><codeph>invalid regex</codeph> - Ensure that regex strings are valid regular
          expressions.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="troubleshooting">
      <title>Troubleshooting</title>
      <p id="p_kkq_f1c_zhc">The following is a list of suggestions for various troubleshooting
          scenarios:<ul id="ul_xsm_31c_zhc">
          <li id="li_ysm_31c_zhc"><b>Filter does not appear</b> - Check the label, regex validity,
            type name, and console warnings.</li>
          <li id="li_eqt_l1c_zhc"><b>"All Files" option is not hidden</b> - Ensure that
              <codeph>allowAllFiles: false</codeph> is set on the type configuration.</li>
          <li id="li_jff_p1c_zhc"><b>Upload restrictions do not work</b> -  Verify the
              <codeph>uploadAcceptAttribute</codeph> format (e.g.
            <codeph>'.jpg,.png'</codeph>).</li>
          <li id="li_vf3_s1c_zhc"><b>Changes do not take effect</b> - Ensure that
              <codeph>setFileBrowserDescriptor()</codeph> is called after modifying the descriptor. </li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
