<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ai_positron_skills_creation">
  <title>Creating Custom AI Skills</title>
  <shortdesc>Create skills for AI Positron using the <b>Anthropic</b> skills specification to extend
    the assistant with custom tools and capabilities.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <section id="section_what_are_skills">
      <title>What Are Skills</title>
      <p>Skills are reusable, filesystem-based resources that provide the LLM with domain-specific
        expertise: workflows, context, and best practices that transform general-purpose agents into
        specialists. Unlike prompts (conversation-level instructions for one-off tasks), Skills load
        on-demand and eliminate the need to repeatedly provide the same guidance across multiple
        conversations.</p>
      <p>Skills follow the <xref
          href="https://platform.claude.com/docs/en/agents-and-tools/agent-skills/overview"
          format="html" scope="external">Anthropic skills specification</xref>, that defines a
        standard format. This specification ensures that skills are portable, well-structured, and
        easy to keep.</p>
      <p>All chat modes available in AI Positron have access to look up and load all skills
        specified in the AI Positron preferences.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_skill_structure">
      <title>Skill File Structure</title>
      <p>For each skill a separate folder must be created. In the folder create a
          <filepath>SKILL.md</filepath> file that follows the Anthropic skills specification format.
        The file has a YAML front matter block with metadata specifying the skill name and
        description, followed by a description of the skills purpose and behavior. The
          <filepath>SKILL.md</filepath> can also refer to other files placed in the same skill
        folder which should be used by the LLM (only when working with the AI Positron Desktop and
        Eclipse Plugin distributions).</p>
      <p>A minimal skill file looks like this:</p>
      <codeblock id="codeblock_skill_example" outputclass="language-markdown">---
name: atlassian-jira-retrieve-note-for-documentation
description: Retrieve the note for documentation from an Atlassian JIRA issue.
---

# Atlassian Jira Retrieve Note For Documentation

When the user asks you to write documentation based on an Atlassian JIRA issue
use this skill to retrieve documentation notes from a particular issue. Call the Model Context 
Protocol tool "retrieve_jira_issue_field" having as parameter the issue ID and the 
field name "note_for_documentation" to retrieve the note for documentation and use it further.</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section conkeyref="reusables-ai-plugin/distributing_ai_skills" id="distributing_ai_actions"
      ><p/></section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="https://platform.claude.com/docs/en/agents-and-tools/agent-skills/overview"
      format="html" scope="external">
      <linktext>Anthropic Skills Specification</linktext>
    </link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
